SOP
From childhood I have always been curious about my surroundings and eager to learn new things. In my country education is consider to be the way of earning but not the necessity of life. But I did not follow any trend.[QS1]  I chose to be a chemical engineer because of my work on a bio-gas project during my secondary school. I designed a gasifier with the help of a chemical engineer. My project stood first among 40 others. This project gave me great insight on the processes of making new substances from simpler starting ones. 
The experience also motivated me towards process designing in my chemical engineering degree. I had already seen the importance of the design of the gasifier in the scope of the overall project. Modeling and simulation were elements that had always motivated and fascinated me. To increase my exposure to them for a possible career in this field, I enrolled in a computer language class to develop and polish my skill set. I have advanced knowledge of C++ and MATLAB. This helped me not only during my graduate courses but also in my final year research project. With MATLAB, I have made some programs for calculation of reaction constant for 1st to 2nd order reactions. During my educational career I always try to be at top and did not stick with single course. [QS2]
In my final year, I wanted to do a project that would provide a groundwork for a future in process designing as well as take me through all the stages and aspects of the process design workflow. I finally settled upon the project of “Production of Styrene from Ethyl Benzene”. My main responsibility as group leader for this project was to carry out the simulations and prepare a basic process flow diagram with all the material and energy balances. The project included two adiabatic plug flow reactors, two distillation columns, boiler and other miscellaneous equipment like heat exchangers, separators etc. As a result, almost all unit operations and processes were a part of this project. Styrene production is hydrogenation process over a catalyst in presence of steam. Then product mixture is cooled down in a series of exchangers and after that purified in separator and distillation column. The adiabatic reactor, boiler and distillation column were designed for this plant. The adiabatic reactor was designed on the basis of catalyst volume. In adiabatic reactor, the temperature changes with length so the reaction rate and reaction constant change accordingly as well. To make the calculations accurate, this reactor was converted [QS3]to 20 small reactors and the calculations performed. A program was written in MATLAB for design of distillation column based on FUG technique. Several different simulations were performed in Aspen HYSYS to check the consistency of our material and energy balance. As a result of the detailed design, the project was rated A+ in final evaluation[QS4].
Pursuing higher education has always been my dream. I always wanted to get a Masters degree but I realized in my undergraduate studies that practical experience of industry is also essential for the growth of a budding researcher. That is why I joined Fauji Fertilizer Company (FFC), the largest fertilizer manufacturer in Pakistan, after graduation, to gain some industrial experience. During my 1 year experience at FFC, I learnt a lot about how to connect the theory I had learnt with the practical aspects of chemical engineering. My core responsibility was to monitor and evaluate FFC’s ammonia plant. The ammonia plant is a very unique plant in the sense that one can observe a wide spectrum of sub-disciplines of chemical engineering at work ranging from fluid dynamics to thermodynamics, heat transfer to reaction kinetics and catalytic conversion to purification. During my time there, I worked on various projects that involved process optimization by utilizing process simulation and modelling techniques. One significant project that I want to mention specifically was splitting of waste heat recovery section duct coils to reduce temperature of de-sulphurizer. In ammonia plant, sulphur is poisonous and ZnO is used as catalyst to absorb the sulphur. At our plant, inlet temperatures of ZnO bed were very high (~420 °C) which is not recommended. In order to reduce the temperature, modification in gas preheating coil at upstream of de-sulphurizer was carried out to reduce temperature to 350 °C. One coil was split into two different coils at precise locations to accomplish this. The modification involved rigorous calculations that were done with great care.
During my work here I have seen practical application of chemical engineering. It has opened my mind to new ideas and I now want to expand my knowledge and learn and innovate on things like catalyst design and nano flow models which were being utilized at FFC’s plant.
I have decided to apply to TU Delft because of its modern research facilities, its rigorous studies and its legacy[QS5]. It has been around for over 170 years. It is among the top 10 technical institutes in the world and its chemical engineering program is one of the best. TU Delft’s chemical engineering program has an intake of almost 35% with respect to international students which makes it exciting for me to learn from a diverse group. TU Delft’s chemical engineering degree has its importance in industry as well as in academic sector because of its rigorous standard and astonishing faculty like Prof. Dr. M. T. Kreutzer[QS6]. 
Out of the three tracks offered at TU Delft for master’s degree in Chemical Engineering, I will follow the Process Engineering track because of my interest in this field and my relevant industrial experience. Additionally, my final year project was also relevant to this track which gives me an edge in this area. I have the intellectual skills that are required for the design of a process and computational skills to perform difficult simulations. I have interest in Computational flow dynamics and this track will help me to fulfill my interests. 
Contemporary times are ideal for research in alternate processes and optimization of already established processes. During my tenure at Fauji Fertilizer Company, I have been exposed to intricate working and behavior of catalysts and hydrocarbon processing. I want to do research in a field where I can put the knowledge and experience that I have acquired to good use. The two research projects at TU Delft that interest me the most and reasons why I want to pursue them are as follows:
1. “Coating of nanoparticles in a fluidized bed by atomic layer deposition”. ALD is new technique and has a lot of potential. Its generic use is in field of microelectronics but idea of producing nano-structural particles is amazing because this will tremendously increase activity and selectivity of the catalyst. The complexity and challenging nature of this topic intrigues me the most. 
2. “Numerical simulations and modeling of MHD turbulence”. MHD did not receive much attention in the past because conducting fluids are rare in our word and the understanding of plasma did not require a study of the magnetic field. However, in recent times, discovery of magnetic field role has been recognized in subjects like accretion disks and interstellar medium and so the importance of MHD increases. Uniqueness of this topic and its applications in cosmology are main reason for choosing this. 
I have remained a high achiever throughout my academic and professional career. [QS7]I want to challenge and benchmark myself against some of the best minds of the world. TU Delft, with its research team, can provide me with this opportunity and that is why I believe it is best suited for me to do this. With my educational background and professional experience, I am confident I will be able to contribute to and learn from your esteemed research team.  
  

[QS1]These lines make no sense to me. Literally incomprehensible. 
[QS2]Would suggest you to get rid of this line. Not making sense in context.
[QS3]Can we use word simplified here? Or modelled as?
[QS4]Get rid of we and I. Make it totally neutral. Seems more professional that way.
[QS5]Put in some lines about the labs for your field of interest. 
[QS6]Put in some lines about research groups being in line with your own research interests.
[QS7]Would be advisable to mention your gold medal and class position at this point.
